Alright in this video we are going to take
a look at uploading an image. Now we're
just going to look at the controller, all
the front-end code and the controller
stuff. The actual persistence is not done
in this video. So I'm just going to look
at setting up the UI components on the
web front-end as far as Thymeleaf goes
and then the controller methods to both
display the form to upload the image and
also to process a Multipart upload. So
it's a few nuances that we have to work
through. So the first thing we're going
to do is modify the show HTML and this
is for the recipe show. So let's take a
look at that and I've gone in and I put
an image here with the white X on it. So
that's our static display image and
right now this is rendering from Spring Boot resources. And by default, toggle
over here,
show exactly what it's coming from. I've
added in the images to resources static. I need to actually add those in to
Git so you will have those images
available here. So I've got images for
both recipes here and then I have this
from one that's appended with X and
that's this image right here and that's the
one that we're going to replace with. So
in a future video, we're going to
modify this to display the image from
the database but we're not doing that
just yet. So it's like a static
placeholder for us and we'll also see
that the image that we load to the
database does not have it. So
what I want to do is implement
functionality to put a button here to
change image and that's going to take us
to the simple upload form here. So we
will be able to choose a file and upload
that image and then click on submit. So
let's step through the stuff that we
have to do for Spring MVC on this. So
come back over here to IntelliJ. So and
here's the images under static, resources,
static images and we've modified the
show HTML document to add the button. Then we have this brand new image form.
Nothing too interesting here. It's going
to expect back a recipe property to get
the ID
value because we need that to build
the URL that we are going to post this to and
pretty simple form action. What
is very important here is the encoding
type. So we do this multipart form-data.
So that's how we upload an image via
HTML and of course, we're going to do
post. And let's take a look at our ImageControllerTest. Again test-driven
development and this time here we have
two mocks. We're going to need the Image
Service and the RecipeService and those
will get injected into the controller. We
do that manually because we are running
true unit tests and we have this form
get. So getFormGet, not a very good
name. I just want to rename it to get. Try to
have some things that make sense here. And on this one we've seen this a few
times already in the course, we're going
to create a RecipeCommand. Set the ID to
a long of 1 and on line 45, they were
telling Mockito. So when we do a find by
ID, anyLong value return back that
command. And down here on line 48, this is
where we're going to test out Spring MVC. We're going to perform a get action
against recipe number one for the ID
value image for the action that we want.
And we're performing a get and we're
going to say status okay and we're going
to verify that on line 50 there that the
model attribute does exist. And then on
line 57 this is where we're going to
test, actually uploading the image file.
So the something that we have not seen
before on line 58. We create a Mock
MultipartFile. So this is going to mock
out the file that's going to get posted
by the web browser and we are giving it
a name of image files. That's important.
We're going to be looking for something
called image file and we will do a post
on that. So we actually have a multipart
option that we're going to be utilizing.
That's a static method within the
MockMvc testing framework. So that's
going to mimic a multipart upload and
we're going to expect back a redirection.
So the way I want this to work is
we upload the image file, we'll store it
and then we'll redirect back to the
the recipe show page. So that's why we
are expecting the header location tab
recipe/1/show. And then finally on line
66 our imageService, now right now is
returning a void, so it doesn't return
anything. So there's no mock action to
establish for it but we do want to make
sure that got called one time. So let's
go ahead and run our test here and we'll
verify that these two tests do in fact
run properly and they do. And now let's
take a look at the ImageController and
we have the two methods there. I am using
GetMapping recipe ID and you can see
that the URLs are the same but once
that GetMapping, which is going to
return back the form for the recipe ID
that's passed in, that's where we're
invoking the RecipeService. And again
it's going to do recipe image form and
that's going to equate to right here.
Recipe image. I'll call it imageuploadform. So that's how those two tied
together. So it's a new Thymeleaf template
that we're adding. And then on line 34
this is going to handle the upload of
the image and this is pretty simple also.
So it takes strips in the ID from
the path variable and then we get
the request parameter image file. So
that's going to be passed up by the form
on the post. Then we call our imageService saveImageFile. Let's double
check that. I'm just doing it on a Mac. You can do command click, I think on a PC
it's ctrl+click and then over here, I can
click on the little implementation there.
Nothing here to see really. It's just a
stub we're going to implement the actual
persistence of the database in the
next video in the course. But for now
we're just going to focus on the front
and make sure that's flowing. So let's go
in and I'm going to double check all my
test run. Make sure that those run. I
think we're up to 62 unit tests here
which is pretty decent
and you can see how quickly these tests
actually run as unit test. And now
let's go ahead and start our Spring Boot
application and we'll test this out. So
we are up and running. Let's come over
here in localhost:8080,
refresh that. And let's view it and we
can do a change image and choose a file.
You can see reactive is coming with my
graphics and then say submit and you can
see down here in the log, the very last
line as I received a file. So that is
our log statement so we know that the
controller action did accept the image
and post it up. At least we've got
something through there. In theory it
should be the image file. So in the next
video we are going to extend out this
and actually change it into a byte array
and store it within the database. So we
can then in the following video get the
image out of the database and as a side
note, some of you might be
thinking why not just store the image to
the file system. And this is a habit that
you really don't want to get into
especially in Java development because
you don't want to be writing images into the
file system. I know the PHP guys love to
do this but we want to keep our
application portable. So we can spool it
out to different application servers, let
it run in a cluster and if you start
storing your file, your image files to
the local file system, you start to
play the game of which file system did
you persist that image to. So in doing
something like that you want to store it
either in the database and I'm not a
huge fan of that, storing images in the
database but it does get the job done. It
gives you a central location. Another
good alternative would be to store those
files up in Amazon s3 and then set up a
services, serve those from s3. So a couple
couple different alternatives there that
you can do but for this purpose here,
we're going to be storing the images in
the database and we will you get into
persisting those images into the
database in the next video.